Welcome to Dinero!
Dinero is Copyright (C) 2001 by Josiah Israel Barber.

See the file 'COPYING' (that you should have received along with this
file and the rest of the distribution) for a copy of the GNU General
Public License , which is the legal document with the terms this
program is released under.

You can contact me via email at: gnu_fan@yahoo.com.  You can send
complaints, bug reports, or suggestions.  You can also send praise.


OVERVIEW

Dinero is not exactly really organized.  But it is intended to keep
you organized.  At least in regards to your checking account.  It's
also good to keep track of your credit card spending.

The left column holds dates, the middle column holds comments, and the
right column holds the amount of the transaction.

For example, one line might have a date field holding '01/01/01', a
comment field holding 'check no 1607, donation to the FSF', and a
money field holding '-50.00'.  Another line might have a date field
holding '09/27/02', a comment field holding 'WON THE LOTTERY!!!', and
a money field holding '+250000.00'.  You can leave any of the fields
blank, and you can leave any number of blank lines between used lines,
if you like.

Dinero displays the total of all money fields in the lower right hand
corner; this is the current balance of your account, or what you owe
on your credit card, or whatever.

It's basically a special purpose spreadsheet program.


USING DINERO

here's a quick rundown.  this section will be written for real at some
point.  you'll notice that these commands are pretty much identical to
emacs commands.  the behavior is slightly different from the emacs
equivalent in some cases where i deemed appropriate.

Usage: dinero [files]


C-x k - kill buffer (prompts for name)

C-x b - switch to buffer (prompts for name)

C-x C-f - open file (prompts for name)

C-x s - save all - saves all open accounts that already have a file
name associated with them.

C-x C-s - save - saves current account.  prompts for file name.

C-f, right - move cursor right, wrap around

C-b, left - move cursor left, wrap around

C-p, up - move cursor up

C-n, down - move cursor down

page up - shift view a screenful up

page down - shift vew a screenful down

home - go to line 0

end - go to last line

C-k - kill current line

C-o - insert line at cursor

C-e - empty field under cursor

C-z, C-x C-z, C-a - suspend

C-x C-c - quit dinero

enter - edit field under cursor

notes: 
       
       press any key that makes sense in a particular field, and you
       will be editing that field with that character as the first one

       over date field, press 't' to fill in todays date

       tab helps a little in date field

       the date field editor-parser (wtf?) exhibits fairly
       intelligent behavior - it's hard to explain but here's a hint:

if you are over the date field and you press '2', you will be thrown
into the date field editor, which will get the '2' as the first
character, but there are no months in the 20's (only 12 months) so you
must mean feb, so you get "02/" (you also get a slash for free because
another digit doesn't make sense, only a slash can go there anyway).
now if you press '2' again you see "02/2" you don't get a free 0 this
time because some days-of-the-month are in the 20's -- but -- if you
press '\n' now, you get the benefit of the doubt, and you get
"02/02/XX" with XX filled in as the current year, or last year as
appropriate (in this case if the current date is between jan 1 and feb
1, 02/02 hasn't happened yet, so XX is last year) SO... - if you are
over the date field you can press '2', '2', '\n' to get the date field
filled in with the most recent feb 2nd, and the cursor will be moved
over the comment field.  of course, it's more natural to type '2',
'/', '2', '\n', and this will work, too.  one more hint: you can use
'/' to resolve ambiguities: if you had typed a '1' instead of the
first '2' in the previous example, the date field editor wouldn't have
given you that free 0, 'cause you might mean 01, 10, 11, or 12, but if
you press '/' after your '1', then you must mean 01 so you get "01/".
so for jan 2nd you can type '1', '/', '2', '\n'; but this time the '/'
is not just a allowed but required: if you type '1', '2', '\n' then
you've got "12/" and the enter doesn't take.  this is all very
complicated to explain, but the behavior is pretty much what you would
hope for (i hope ;)

     tab helps you complete buffer names for killing and switching

     file name completion will be added soon



ON THE NAME

'Dinero' means 'money' in Spanish, and Dinero helps you keep track of
your money (in English).  It also makes a good recursive name: Dinero
Is Not Exactly Really Organized.  The source code for dinero, as well
as the documentation (this file), is not terribly well organized.  But
Dinero's purpose is kind of organizational, so it's kinda funny, see.
